---
layout: post
title: Computation Complexity Chapter 7
date: 2022-06-15 20:00:00
description: Solution to Sanjeev Boaz Book Chapter 7
tags: TCS complexity randomness
categories: solutions
---

# 7.4
Run the machine $$M$$ for sufficiently many times and accepts iff in one of the runs $$M$$ accepts.

# 7.5
Under Construction

# 7.6
### (a)
Suppose $$M'$$ is the $$\ZPP$$ TM for $$L$$. For the first direction, we could set a polynomial time limit. We output whatever $$M$$ outputs if $$M$$ halts and **?** otherwise. For the other direction, we run $$M$$ until it outputs something other than **?**. We could prove that the expected time is indeed polynomial.

### (b)
Using the result in **(a)**, there is a PTM that runs in fixed polynomial time. More importantly, the PTM is guaranteed to output the correct answer every time. We could design a machine $$M$$ that runs the PTM for some rounds, outputs whatever it outputs. If its outputs are all **?** for every round of running, $$M$$ outputs 0 or 1 at random. $$M$$ is a PTM that satisfies both the definition for $$\RP$$ and that for $$\coRP$$.

# 7.7
*Proof.* First of all, apparently $$3\SAT \in \NPpoly$$ since verifying a $$3\SAT$$ problem is in $$\P$$ and $$\P \subseteq \Ppoly$$, which means we could use a poly-sized circuit to verify a $$3\SAT$$ expression. Next, we show that we could constuct a poly-sized circuit for any $$L \in \BPNP$$.

We know that $$\forall L \in \BPNP$$, there is a PTM $$M$$ that runs in poly-time such that $$\forall x, \prob{r \in \{0,1\}^m}{L(x) = 3\SAT(M(x,r))} \ge \frac23$$, in which $$m = p(\|x\|)$$ (alternative definition). Denote by $$n$$ the length of $$x$$. With the error reduction technique, we could assume that $$M$$ satisfies

$$
    \forall x, \prob{r \in \{0, 1\}^m}{L(x) = 3\SAT(M(x, r))} \ge 1 - 2^{-n}
$$

Thus, by the union bound, we know that there could be at most $$2^{m-n} \le 2^{m-1}$$ possible $$r$$'s that make the two differ. However, there are in total $$2^m$$ possible strings of $$r$$, which indicates the existance of a $$r_n$$ that satisfies $$\forall x, L(x) = 3\SAT(M(x, r_n))$$. Since evaluating $$M(x, r_n)$$ only takes a poly-sized circuit, for each $$x \in L$$, we could construct such a circuit that first evaluates $$M(x, r_n)$$, then verify that this string is in $$3\SAT$$.

Thus, we have that $$\BPNP \subseteq \NPpoly \tag*{$\blacksquare$}$$.

# 7.8
Under Construction

# 7.9
*Proof.*         For any $$L \in \BPL$$, there is a PTM $$M$$ using logarithmic space deciding $$L$$. Since $$M$$ only uses logarithmic space, the number of its configurations, $$N$$, is at most polynomial in terms of the input length. We could first calculate a $$N \times N$$ matrix $$A$$ such that 

$$
    A(C_i, C_j) = \left\{
    \begin{array}{cc}
        \frac12 & \langle C_i, C_j \rangle\text{ is a valid transition in }M\\
        0 & \text{otherwise}
    \end{array}
    \right.
$$ 

We could then compute $$(A + I)^t$$ to get the probability of each each transition to happen after time $$t$$. Thus, we can do the multiplication over and over until all the probability of $$C_{start}$$ transitioning to non-halting configurations are 0. Since by definition $$M$$ must halt within a polynomial time $$T(n)$$, this process must also stop within polynomial time.
Note that we could calculate the numbers precisely since we only need a precision of $$2^{-T(n)}$$. We could use $$T(n)+1$$ digits to record the probabilities.

Thus, we have a TM that calculates $$A$$, verifies the probability of $$C_{start}$$ transitioning to accepting states and finally outputing 1 or 0 based on the probability. We also know this TM runs in polynomial time, so $$L \in \P$$, which indicates $$\BPL \subseteq \P \tag*{$\blacksquare$}$$.

# 7.10
Under Construction

# 7.11
Under Construction
