---
layout: post
title: Multi-armed Bandits
date: 2022-06-14 20:00:00
description: classic techniques on solving MAB problems
tags: online-learning
categories: classic-tools
---

# Problem Setting
Generally, the problem in our concern is the *Stochastic Multi-armed Bandits*.
In this setting, the player is presented with a collection of actions, or *arms* to pull each round of play.
Each arm distributes a random reward $$X_{i, t}$$ that follows some subgaussian distribution over $$[0,1]$$, with $$\mathbb{E}[X_{i, t}] = \mu_i$$.
The goal of the player is to minimize the cumulative regret. 
Suppose the player chooses arm $$a_t$$ at round $$t$$, the regret at round $$T$$ could be written as

\begin{equation}
    R_T = \max\limits_{j} \mathbb{E}[\sum_{t=1}^{T}(X_{j, t}-X_{a_t, t})]
\end{equation}

Another way to write this is to use the reward gap $$\Delta_i = \max_j \mu_j - \mu_i$$. In this way, the regret could also be written as

\begin{equation}
    R_T = \mathbb{E}[\sum_{t=1}^{T} \Delta_{a_t}] = \sum_{i}^n \Delta_i \mathbb{E}[T_i]
\end{equation}
in which $$T_i$$ is the number of times arm $$i$$ is chosen.

# Classic Tools
## Upper Confidence Bound(UCB)
### Idea
Approximate the reward of each arm by the estimated upper bound (or lower bound) of the arm's reward.

### Algorithm
To be done.

### Regret Bound
We prove a more general form of the bound. Suppose the UCB formula used in the algorithm is $$UCB_{i,t} = \hat{\mu_{i, T_i}} + \sqrt{\frac{\alpha \log t}{2T_i}}$$, where $$\hat{\mu_{i,t}}$$ is the average (empirical estimate) of rewards get so far from arm $$i$$.
We could bound the cumulative regret as

**Theorem 1**(*Regret Bound for UCB*) For $$T \ge 1$$,
\begin{equation}
    R_T \le \sum_{i,\Delta_i > 0} 4\alpha \frac{\log T}{\Delta_i} + \frac{2\alpha}{\alpha-1}\Delta_i
\end{equation}

*Proof.* 
Suppose, without loss of generality, the first arm is the optimal one.
From the formula of $$R_T$$ we know that the key is to bound $$\mathbb{E}[T_i]$$.
If we don't select the optimal arm, there could be two scenarios: either UCB is not an effective bound anymore or that the number of sampling is not enough to make $$UCB_{i,t} < UCB_{1, t}$$. We need to bound the probability of these cases happening.

We first analyze the latter case. In this case, we have

$$ 
    \hat{\mu_{i, T_i}} + \sqrt{\frac{\alpha \log t}{2T_i}} \ge \hat{\mu_{1, T_1}} + \sqrt{\frac{\alpha \log t}{2T_1}}
$$

Since in this case we assume that our estimate (UCB) still works, we need two events to hold:
- $$LB_t: \mu_i \ge \hat{\mu_{i, T_i}} - \sqrt{\frac{\alpha \log t}{2T_i}}$$
- $$UB_t: \mu_1 \le \hat{\mu_{1, T_1}} + \sqrt{\frac{\alpha \log t}{2T_1}}$$

The intuition is that if $$LB$$ doesn't hold, $$UCB_i$$ overestimates $$\mu_i$$. Similarly we could intuitionally explain $$UB_t$$.
With these two assumptions, we have

$$
    \mu_i + 2\sqrt{\frac{\alpha \log t}{T_i}} \ge \mu_1.
$$

With some modification to this inequality and $$t \le T$$, we have

$$
    T_i \le \frac{4\alpha\log T}{\Delta_i^2}.
$$

Next, we try to bound the probability the former case happens. 
Formally speaking, this means $$LB_t^c \cup UB_t^c$$, which could be estimated using union bound.
$$LB_t^c$$ is equivalent to $$\hat{\mu_{i, T_i}} - \mu_i > \sqrt{\frac{\alpha \log t}{2T_i}}$$.
Since $$\mu_i = \mathbb{E}[\hat{\mu_{i, T_i}}]$$, we could use Chernoff bound to bound the probability of $$LB_t^c$$:

$$
    P(LB_t^c) = P(\hat{\mu_{i, T_i}} - \mu_i > \sqrt{\frac{\alpha \log t}{2T_i}}) \le exp\left(\frac{-2t\alpha \log t}{2T_i}\right) \le \frac1{t^\alpha}
$$

The last inequality is derived from $$T_i \le t$$.
Similarly, we could also prove that $$P(UP_t^c) \le \frac1{t^\alpha}$$.

Thus, we have

\begin{array}{ccc}
\mathbb{E}[T_i] & = & \sum_{t=1}^T P(a_t = i) \\\\
& \le & \frac{4\alpha \log T}{\Delta_i^2} + \sum{t=1}^T  P(UB_t^c \vee LB_t^c)) \\\\
& \le & \frac{4\alpha \log T}{\Delta_i^2} + 2\sum{t=1}^T \frac1{t^\alpha} \\\\
& \le & \frac{4\alpha \log T}{\Delta_i^2} + \frac{2\alpha}{\alpha-1} \\\\
\end{array}

Substituting $$\mathbb{E}[T_i]$$ in the formula of $$R_T$$ yields the result.$$\tag*{$\blacksquare$}$$

## Thompson Sampling
